---
hide:
  - toc
---

# Changelog 1.18.2-0.7.24r / 1.19.3-0.7.23b

## Table of Contents

1. [Item/Fluid Filter](#itemfluid-filter)
2. [Inventory manager](#inventory-manager)
3. [ME and RS Bridge](#me-and-rs-bridge)

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

The 0.7.24r update brings some changes to our inventory system.
All major and breaking changes are listed here to help with updating your scripts.

### Item/Fluid Filter

You may know that we use tables to filter for items for some of our inventory transferring functions. This system got a rework and is now used for more functions but also got some syntax changes.

Fluids also now use a filter system.

The following keys got removed:
- `json`
- `tag`

The `nbt` key now uses json typed nbt values like `{nbt="{StoredEnchantments: [{lvl: 2s, id: \"minecraft:blast_protection\"}]}"}`

The `name` key can now search for tags.
``` lua
{
    name="#minecraft:wool" -- searches for the wool tag
    -- OR
    name="#forge:ores/gold" -- searches for the forge gold tag
    -- OR
    name="minecraft:white_wool" -- searches for white wool
}
```

You CAN NOT search for multiple items/tags at once.

Item Filters can filter for slots with `toSlot` and `fromSlot`.

You can find the new filter documentation [here](/guides/filters)

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

### Inventory manager

The following functions got deprecated:

- `removeItemFromPlayer(direction: string, count: int[, slot: int, item: string])`

- `addItemToPlayer(direction: string, count: int[, slot: int, item: string])`

- `removeItemFromPlayerNBT(direction: string, count: int[, slot: int, item: table])`

- `addItemToPlayerNBT(direction: string, count: int[, slot: int, item: table])`

These will be replaced in the next major update with the following two functions:

- `removeItemFromPlayer(direction: direction, string: table)`

- `addItemToPlayer(direction: string, item: table)`

The following functions now use the new [filter](/guides/filters) system:

- `removeItemFromPlayerNBT(direction: string, count: int[, slot: int, item: filter])`

- `addItemToPlayerNBT(direction: string, count: int[, slot: int, item: filter]))`

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

### ME and RS Bridge

Added the following functions to the me bridge:

- `getTotalItemStorage`
- `getTotalFluidStorage`
- `getUsedItemStorage`
- `getUsedFluidStorage`
- `getAvailableItemStorage`
- `getAvailableFluidStorage`
- `listCells`
- `isConnected`

More functions now return a Method Result. This means they're capable to report errors if something wrong. For more information, refer to the documentation of the specific function.
This is not a breaking change.



