---
hide:
  - toc
---

# Changelog 0.7r

## Table of Contents

1. [Update Video](#video)
2. [New Features](#features)
    1. [Integrated Dynamics Integration](#integrated-dynamics-integration-116)
    2. [Storage Drawer Integration](#storage-drawer-integration-116)
    3. [Colony Integrator](#colony-integrator)
    4. [Geo Scanner](#geo-scanner)
    5. [Block Reader](#block-reader)
    6. [NBT Storage](#nbt-storage)
    7. [New Turtles Upgrades](#new-turtles-upgrades)
    8. [New Ingame Documentation](#new-ingame-documentation)
3. [Small features and improvements](#small-features-and-improvements)
    1. [Breaking changes](#breaking-changes)
    2. [New functions, events and translations!](#new-functions-events-and-translations)
    3. [Improved mod integration](#improved-mod-integration)
    4. [Support for relative and cardinal directions](#support-for-relative-and-cardinal-directions)
4. [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes)

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

## First of all

First of all, big thanks to SirEdvin and FatalMerlin! These awesome hoomans helped a lot with this update!

---

### Video

If you don't want to read, you can watch this wonderful short video!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tIpBTgSkWr0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="aspect-ratio:560/315;width:100%;height:auto;"></iframe>

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

## Features

### New Integrations

- #### Integrated Dynamics Integration  
We added a peripheral to the "Variable Store" Block from [Integrated Dynamics](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/integrated-dynamics) to read variables from integrated dynamics.

    ##### [View here](../integrations/integrated_dynamics/variable_store.md)

- #### Storage Drawer Integration  
You can now access [Storage Drawers](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/storage-drawers). Store items, push and pull items or do whatever you want to do with items. This new feature is a mod integration.

    ##### [View here](../integrations/storage_drawers/drawer.md)

### New Peripherals

- #### Colony Integrator
We added the **Colony Integrator** that interacts with [MineColonies](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/minecolonies). You can use this peripheral to get information about your colony. It can be used as a [pocket upgrade](../items/pocket_computer.md) or as a block.

    ##### [View here](../peripherals/colony_integrator.md)

- #### Geo Scanner  
The **Geo Scanner** provides information about blocks around it and information about the current chunk. You could use it to search the current chunk and nearby blocks for ores.

    ##### [View here](../peripherals/geo_scanner.md)

- #### Block Reader  
With the **Block Reader** you can read the data of neighboring blocks and tile entites.

    ##### [View here](../peripherals/block_reader.md)

- #### NBT Storage  
With the **NBT Storage** peripheral you are able to store tables or other values into a block as NBT data. You can read and write values to the block with the peripheral functions.

    ##### [View here](../peripherals/nbt_storage.md)

### New Turtles Upgrades  
New powerful turtle upgrades!  
With these small upgrades you finally can use any tools just from turtle inventories, perform right click on blocks, collect items in a small range, transport animals and much more! But be aware, the new abilities require fuel and most of them have a cooldown. Big thanks to SirEdvin who made these upgrades.

### New Ingame Documentation  
Advanced Peripherals now uses [Patchouli](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/patchouli) to generate ingame documentation. You can now get quick information about the mod in-game, without the need for internet access!

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

## Small features and improvements

This update also provides a lot of small features and improvements.

---

#### Breaking changes

- We changed some function names of the ME Bridge and RS Bridge peripherals.
- Removed the Peripheral Proxy

---

#### New functions, events and translations

- Added the slot parameter to the functions of the [Inventory Manager](../peripherals/inventory_manager.md).
- Added `uuid` and `isHidden` return values to the chat event.
- Added a lot of new functions to the [Player Detector](../peripherals/player_detector.md).
- Added the `sendFormattedMessage` function to the chat box.
- Added russian translations by DrHesperus.

---

#### Improved mod integration  
You can now connect supported blocks directly with a modem. We completely removed the Peripheral Proxy.

---

#### Support for relative and cardinal directions  
You can now use relative directions (`right`, `left`, `front`, `back`, `top` `bottom`) and cardinal directions (`north`, `south`, `east`, `west`, `up`, `down`) at the same time.  
**Example:** 
```lua linenums="1"
-- Both of these will work
redstoneIntegrator.setOutput("north", true)
redstoneIntegrator.setOutput("right", true)
```

<hr style="height: 0.2rem;background-color:var(--md-default-fg-color--lightest);border:none;">

## Bug fixes

*\* Not all fixed bugs are listed here*

- Fixed server crashes with the RS Bridge
- Fixed chunky turtle performance issues
- Fixed that the redstone integrators lets pass redstone signal through it
- Fixed that the redstone integrator does not update blocks around it
- Improved chat event performance
